Hello!

It’s been over a month since the Open Source Alliance for Open Science meeting in Portland. We made connections and workshopped a big picture vision for what our field needs, more here. We began work on a document that outlines our guiding principles and code of conduct. Last week, Karissa McKelvey lead a call where this document was further refined, and further communication and mission issues were discussed. The values are not yet final; the current draft of the document, as well as notes from the call, can be viewed here and the call itself was recorded here - please feel free to comment on the document if you were unable to make the call. After the values and code of conduct have been finalized, we can consider the process for bringing new organizations into the community.

During this call issues surfaced and tasks were delegated. First, a name change to Open Source for Open Scholarship was discussed.  As the term science can exclude scholarship and research outside the traditional “hard sciences”, and Open Source for Open Scholarship also conveniently maintains the shorted name OS4OS, we agreed this change would improve our ability to reach people in all research disciplines. And, to collect our projects and documents, we have started an organization on GitHub! 

A central list of OS4OS projects is a high priority for the group, to help people connect to tools and initiatives, reduce redundant effort, and highlight areas for collaboration. Danielle, Bruno, and Teon will take the lead on starting a repository of projects that will enable us to better support each other’s work. For now, it’s a google sheet - please add your project or endorse a project that you use here.

Brendan is committing to work on building a website for the group (unless someone else gets to it first). If you’d like to contribute to that, the website has started here: https://github.com/os4os/website. Karissa has volunteered to set up the deployment later using Netlify (free https and automatic deployments!)

Alex has crafted a very short public-facing survey to post on the website, for outside organizations to share what an alliance of Open Scholarship tool-builders and advocates could do for them and the community. Feel free to edit or make suggestions.

Karissa has volunteered to set up another call at the end of July to re-group. Please fill out your availability here: https://beta.doodle.com/poll/gwksxim3qhkdywx4#table

Thanks to everyone who volunteered to get some tasks done for the OS4OS. If you would like to get involved, take the following steps and connect with us online or at the next call!

Add your project or endorse a project you are familiar with here 
Contact Tracy or Karissa with your github username to be added to the GitHub organization
Please fill out your availability here for the next call: https://beta.doodle.com/poll/gwksxim3qhkdywx4#table
